
geeksforgeeks
search icon
avatar
My Profile
My Courses
Leaderboard
Explore Community
Transaction History
Saved Videos
Edit Profile
Logout
Courses
Tutorials
Practice
Jobs


Change Language



Doubt Assistance Is Not Available For This Course

















C++ Program to Read Content From One File and Write it Into Another File

comments
Here, we will see how to read contents from one file and write it to another file using a C++ program. Let us consider two files file1.txt and file2.txt. We are going to read the content of file.txt and write it in file2.txt

Contents of file1.txt:

Welcome to GeeksForGeeks
Approach:

Create an input file stream object and open file.txt in it.
Create an output file stream object and open file2.txt in it.
Read each line from the file and write it in file2.
Below is the C++ program to read contents from one file and write it to another file:


// C++ program to read contents from
// one file and write it to another file
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// Driver code
int main()
{  
  // Input file stream object to 
  // read from file.txt
  ifstream in("file1.txt");
  
  // Output file stream object to 
  // write to file2.txt
  ofstream f("file2.txt");
    
  // Reading file.txt completely using 
  // END OF FILE eof() method
  while(!in.eof())
  {
    // string to extract line from 
    // file.txt
    string text;
      
    // extracting line from file.txt
    getline(in, text);
      
    // Writing the extracted line in 
    // file2.txt
    f << text << endl;
  }
  return 0;
}

Output:

file1.txt

GeeksforGeeks is a Computer Science portal for geeks. 
file2.txt

GeeksforGeeks is a Computer Science portal for geeks. 
Discussions
( Threads )

Most Recent
Commenting as Tanish Kumar

Comment Anonymously
Submit
If you are facing any issue on this page. Please let us know.
Practice | GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks
Article marked as read.

