
geeksforgeeks
search icon
avatar
My Profile
My Courses
Leaderboard
Explore Community
Transaction History
Saved Videos
Edit Profile
Logout
Courses
Tutorials
Practice
Jobs


Change Language



Doubt Assistance Is Not Available For This Course

















How to Delete a File in C++?

comments
C++ file handling allows us to manipulate external files from our C++ program. We can create, remove, and update files using file handling. In this article, we will learn how to remove a file in C++.

Delete a File in C++ 
To remove a file in C++, we can use the remove() function defined inside the <stdio.h> header file. The remove() function takes the path of the file as a string argument and deletes the file.

Syntax of remove()
remove(char * path)
where the path is the relative or even absolute path to the file.

If the function returns zero, the file has been successfully deleted. If the function returns a non-zero value, an error occurs.

C++ Program to Remove a File
The below example demonstrates how we can remove a file named “myfile.txt” in C++.




// C++ program to demonstrate how to remove a file
​
#include <cstdio>
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
​
int main()
{
​
    // Remove the file named "myfile.txt"
    int status = remove("myfile.txt");
​
    // Check if the file has been successfully removed
    if (status != 0) {
        perror("Error deleting file");
    }
    else {
        cout << "File successfully deleted" << endl;
    }
​
    return 0;
}

Output

File successfully deleted
Time Complexity: O(1), as file removal is a constant time operation. 
Auxilliary Space: O(1)

Explanation: The above code attempts to delete the file named "myfile.txt". If file is removed successfully, it prints "File successfully deleted". Otherwise, it prints an error message.

Note: The remove() function will not delete a directory. To delete a directory, we need to use the rmdir() function. Also, always ensure that the file is not open in your program or another program before attempting to delete it.


 

Discussions
( Threads )

Most Recent
Commenting as Tanish Kumar

Comment Anonymously
Submit
If you are facing any issue on this page. Please let us know.
Practice | GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks
Article marked as read.

